Now the next thing I talk about is the different types of crowdfunding.
Now people tend to use the word crowdfunding as an all encompassing term and it actually refers to different
models of raising money from the crowd.
And there's four main models and we're going to go through them one by one.
So the first type is the donation based crowdfunding site.
So this is something like Go Fund Me or just giving where essentially the people who are pledging don't
really get anything in return just feelgood factor and you can sponsor different projects depending
on you know what your day depending on your personal preferences or maybe what you have an interest
in.
So by listening your project on just giving your essentially a social enterprise or charity and it's
not meant to be profit driven.
So there's a lot of really really cool projects on there and you can make a huge difference.
And you know a lot of the things that we're going talk about and of course apply to pretty much all
types of crowdfunding because at the end of the day you know how you get your message across in your
video or how you can better drive traffic really contributes the success to whatever type of campaign.
But it's just for you to be aware of what different types of crowdfunding there are and to decide on
which one is best suited to your project.
So if you're a social enterprise if you're a charity and you have a specific project in mind a discrete
project like maybe you know build a nursery in a particular village or you know bring books to you know
some part of the world then this is a really good platform for doing that.
It helps you spread the word it helps you organize your entire approach and it can also get you some
free press.
Now the next type which is what we're going to be talking about pre-done Donley in this course.
And most of the examples are going to come from is the reward based crowdfunding also called pre-selling
type of crowdfunding.
So this is of course your Kickstarter your Indiegogo and some smaller sites as well.
Now I'm going to talk about smaller sites so much because I don't think it's worth using because I think
the platform effect can be quite huge.
So by listing your project on Indiegogo or Kickstarter the site itself has a lot of traffic and it can
bring you backers and pledges without you having any direct relationship with that traffic.
So I think for a smaller site which doesn't get much traffic it's not actually worth putting in all
of this effort to optimize for it.
So we're going to be focusing on Kickstarter and indigo again.
So the reward based crowdfunding platform function by having creators set out a range of perks so things
that people will get for their pledge.
Now these perks can be as small as a thank you note and they can be as large as maybe you know meeting
the creators in person but essentially for these rewards people pledge various amounts and usually people
are expecting to get a good deal.
They're expecting to be the first person who gets to use this product so that they can show off to their
friends and family about how they were first to use that particular product.
We all know somebody who bought an iPhone when it was second generation and they go on about it.
So there are those types of people.
But also you know there are people who are looking for a good deal right.
Because when you're launching on Kickstarter people are taking a risk by backing you because your project
might fail you might run away with the money or of many many things can happen that will lead them to
essentially having invested in something where they're not going to get anything back.
Now that should really never occur because by the time that you're launching your campaign you should
already have thought about how you're going to manufacture.
How much is it going to cost.
What are the unit cost and you should have all of this already researched and make sure that everything
is feasible before you go on here it shouldn't be a sort of pie in the sky kind of idea.
Are you saying oh you know I'm going to make a rocket ship that is going to take you to Mars.
Surprisingly people still pledge for those kinds of projects but most likely you'll get pulled by the
platform because it's completely unfeasible.
So make sure that you've got all your organization done and you're going to these platforms.
Pre-selling the thing that you're going to make so that by having a lot of backers you get volume discounts
from the manufacturers and you have demonstrable interest in your product.
So if you're making a hardware product this is definitely the way to go.
But even if you're making a software product or something that is virtual this can be a really really
good way of raising funding to make it possible.
Because as we all know you know there are significant development costs associated with you know even
making a new web app or making a new mobile app.
And as long as you make it convincing enough for your backers then this can be a really good way of
raising funding to make it happen.
Now the next type is a lending based Crowdfunding.
This is actually where backers are lending you money in hopes of getting a decent investment return.
So Lynn invest is a really good example where people come together.
They pull their money and they invest it into certain types of assets like property.
And when that property gets sold and you gain a profit that profit is then divided between all of the
backers did of getting a product as a reward.
You actually get a financial reward but allows these lenders to invest in large projects without having
to put up a lot of capital for a lot of risk and a twist on this kind of lending type of crowdfunding
platform are one where you're essentially investing in debt.
So for example you know if a startup needs money to grow and you are buying up that debt then if they
do raise the next round and they gain more and they get more funding or if they get sold and they pay
off their debt and then you're getting an interest way over and beyond what you would get from you know
just having your money stored in a bank.
So Funding Circle and lend invest.
I would say two such examples of the lending type of crowdfunding.
This is very similar in vain to the final type which is the equity based on which the two biggest that
you should know about is crowd cube and Cedar's and the way that it works is that you're pledging money
to get a fraction of equity in the company.
Now these usually non-voting shares.
Now the way that the equity is split and the share structure is beyond the scope of this talk.
But essentially what you're saying is that I'm betting on this company growing and doing better in the
future.
So I want to be one of the early investors or a seed investor in this company so that when they do grow
and they earn a profit or they get more funding or they get sold then my equity in that company is worth
a lot more than what I'm putting in at this stage.
So we're not gonna talk too much about the Financial Times because they have limited appeal.
They usually have sort of higher participation costs and as a company who wants to raise funding they
don't see it as a crowd cube.
You actually have to jump through quite a few hoops because you're looking to raise a lot more funding
and you're looking to give away equity.
Now there's many cases where people have actually raised more money through pre-selling their product
on Kickstarter than actually putting it on CDs and giving away equity.
So giving away equity is not always the first thing that you should think about when you're looking
to get funding basically.
Now the central tenant still holds true.
You know if you own 100 percent of nothing i.e. if your startup is worth nothing and you are 100 percent
of it that still 100 percent of nothing.
So in certain cases it does make sense to give away the equity in order to grow in order to make your
company into something that has a lot more value.
But I would always recommend to explore trying to pre-sell your product and get future customers first
before you go down the equity based route.
Now of course that depends on your start up depends on your idea depends on your project.
But just have a think about which type of crowdfunding platform might be suitable for you.
Or maybe crowdfunding isn't right for you at all and you want to go down the traditional funding routes
and it really makes sense for you to evaluate and have a look at all four types of crowdfunding that
I've mentioned and figure out which type is most suited for your particular project and that's going
to involve a bit of research.
Look at all these platforms I've mentioned look at the projects that have been listed.
Look at the success rates look at the successful case studies and see which of these platforms is best
suited or best matched towards what you want to raise funding for.